- [Instructor] Implementing asynchronous messaging
with Spring Boot is actually a little bit easier
than it is with just traditional Spring.
But that's only because Spring Boot
provides a lot of the default plumbing
that you used to have to configure manually.
The first question you may be asking
is why do you care at all
about using asynchronous messaging?
And I urge you to really think about this one.
Seldom is real-time processing actually a requirement.
All too often,
our business expects things to happen immediately.
But there's no real beneficial reason
why it has to happen that way.
Especially, when an asynchronous communication
is only a couple of seconds behind.
Asynchronous messaging as a whole as long as done correctly,
can reduce the overall strain on your system,
sometimes dramatically by simply pushing tasks a second
or two into the future, instead of right now.
Modern messaging systems are efficient
for sending and receiving asynchronous messages,
especially those with very small payloads.
These efficiencies in sending and receiving
also make your primary systems more efficient
by removing blocking calls.
And I would encourage you,
if you start walking this journey with Async Messaging
to consider using use cases
where you can send simple identifiers of objects
that need to be moved or of transactions that need to occur
as opposed to sending the entire object graph.
Because that will make many messaging systems
perform significantly better.
Now, of course, like everything in software engineering,
there is no silver bullet.
Because some systems are actually more efficient
with larger payloads.
But the idea in those cases is again, reducing the blocking
and increasing the speed.
But more than anything,
you need to understand the messaging system
that you're using and the way to use it properly.
Now, there's two general sides of Async Messaging.
There's the producer and the consumer.
First, we're going to talk about the producer.
The producing side or producer
in general requires the use of a template
and Spring provides one for you.
With Spring Boot,
you get some very default configurations
on how to use your template,
including connecting to the asynchronous messaging system
that is on the local host by default.
Now, you can modify that to a production system
in the real world through a couple of property changes.
For Rabbit, like we will use in this course,
you need to provide an exchange
and a queue name that are bound together.
That way, when the routing goes through the exchange,
it's tagged with the appropriate queue name
such that the message ends up on the appropriate queue.
And that's just how Rabbit AMQP
is a little bit different than say traditional JMS,
where you simply have a queue or a topic.
And each messaging system you will find
has little idiosyncrasies that you have to work with.
Now with Rabbit, you have an exchange in queues and topics.
And it gives you a little bit more control
over how those messages go.
Because the message may actually go to multiple queues
depending on the data type it is and the routing key.
Now, when you do the actual Rabbit template
posting of a message, you can post a full object
and allow Java to serialize, or de-serialize it.
Or you can post a string
which is what I often prefer to do.
I actually created Jason string
that I put on the message queue.
It does a couple of things for me.
Number one,
it removes some of the object serialization risks
that are native to any serialized language.
It also allows me to view the messages on the queue
in a native format, which is Jason.
So, I can actually read them
as opposed to just seeing a serialized object
out in the message queue.
Now, consuming messages follows a very similar pattern.
You create a message listener.
And what happens is Spring receives the message
from the queue and initiates this listener response,
which is the actual worker thread
that occurs when a message hits the queue.
And Spring wires all of that up.
And by default with Spring Boot,
you get a lot of that plumbing, as I said, for free.
Now the response to the message on that queue happens.
And then it executes some logic that you create.
And that logic can be as simple
or as complex as you need it to be based on your situation.
And it's really based on the very same paradigm.
And as a matter of fact,
as we get into actually implementing it,
you will see that there's a lot of similarities
between the configuration of the producer and the consumer.
It's where they're implemented
that you'll see just a little bit different fashion
between the two.